# Project Overview
[Bosch Production Line Performance competition on Kaggle](https://www.kaggle.com/c/bosch-production-line-performance)

## Introduction
The goal of this competition is to predict internal failures based on thousands of 
measurements for each part along the assembly line. 
The features include numeric, categorical, and time features.
To properly measure the performance of prediction models in this highly imbalanced dataset, 
[Matthew's Correlation Coefficient](https://www.kaggle.com/c/bosch-production-line-performance/details/evaluation)
is used as the evaluation metric.

## Exploratory Data Analysis and Feature Engineering
Most of the information about the production lines can be obtained from the time series.
By properly analyzing the time data, we can reveal that one time unit equals 10 hours.
Based on this finding, numerous useful features can be created to indicate the day/hour a part is produced, 
the duration of the production, the work station flows, etc.
Throughout the 2 years recording of production, we also find time-dependent changes in failure probabilities in the stations, 
which are resulted from the evolution of the production lines.

For the numeric and categorical features, various statistical techniques such as data normalization, 
variance stabilization, z-scores, and multi-feature interaction can be applied to create powerful features.

## Training
Model ensemble is used to achieve good performance.
In the first level, several gradient boosting models based on XGBoost are trained.
Repeated 5-fold cross validation are used to obtain stable and robust evaluation of models due to the highly imbalanced classes.
On the second level, another XGBoost model is trained based on original data 
as well as features generated by the first level models.
